valeo (2)	to be strong
primo	first, at first
desilio, desilire, desilui	to leap down
nato (1)	to swim
scapha, -ae f.	small boat
inde	from there, then
audeo, audere, ausum sum	to dare
repello, repellere reppul, repulsum	to drive off
iracundia, -ae f.	bad temper
neque... neque... quidquam	neither... nor... anything...
immo vero	on the contrary, in fact
ignoro (1)	to be ignorant, not to know
cum	since
crudelis, -e	cruel
cum primum	as soon as
poena,-ae f.	punishment, penalty
poenas dare	to pay the penalty
obsecro (1)	to beseech, to beg
quam primum	as soon as possible
disco, discere, dedici	to learn
cupio, cupire, cupivi, cupitum	to desire
rapio, rapere, rapui, raptum	to snatch, seize
arcesso, arcessere, arcessivi, arcessitum	to summon, send for
tela, -ae f.	web, fabric
studium, -i n.	enthusiasm, study
foras	outside
discessisse	to have departed
dicitur	s/he/it is said
Quantum...!	How much....!
talia, talium, n. pl.	such (things)
texo, texere, texui, textum	to weave
ventus, -i m.	wind
unda, -ae f.	wave
magister, magistri m.	schoolmaster, master, captain
Pro di immortales!	by the immortal gods!
coorio	to rise up, arise
evado, evadere, evasi, evasum	to escape
adorio	to attack
resisto, resistere, restiti + dat	to resist
supero (1)	to overcome
pauper	poor
casa, -ae, f.	hut, cottage
pugio, pugionis, m.	dagger
clam	secretly
quoniam	since
convalesco, convalescere, convalui	to get well, to convalesce
Neroneus, -a, -um	of Nero
Campus Martius, -I m.	Field of Mars
quo	there, to that place
quo cum	when... there
pecuniA datA	with the money having been given
vestibulum, -I n.	entrance passage, vestibule
exerceo (2)	to exercise, train
calor, caloris m.	heat
haud	not
vino sumpto	with the wine having been consumed
contra (+ acc.)	against
unguo, unguere, unxi, unctum	to smear with oil
defrico, defricare, defricui, defrictum	to rub down
tergeo, tergere, tersi, tersum	to dry, wipe
cognosco, cognoscere, cognovi, cognitum	to find out, learn, recognize
senex, senis m.	old man
calvus, -a, -um	bald
indutus, -a, -um	clothed
capilattus, -a, -um	with long hair
follis, -is m.	bag
digitus, -I m.	finger
repeto, repetere, repetivi, repetitum	to pick up, recover
concrepo, concrepare, concrepui	to snap fingers
quibus verbis auditis	with which/these words having been heard
exeamus	let us go out
fur, furis m.	thief
me custode	with me (being) on guard
sella, -ae f.	sedan chair, seat
surripio, surripere, surripui, surreptum	to steal
prehendo, prehendere, prehendi, prehensum	to seize
exsilio, exsilire, exsilui	to leap out
confugio, confugere, confugi	to flee for refuge
pavimentum, -I n.	tiled floor
subsequor, subsequi, subsecutus sum	to follow (up)
labor, labi, lapsus sum	to slip, fall
Babylon, Babylonis f.	Babylon
Pyramus, -i m.	Pyramus
virgo, virginis f.	maiden
Thisbe, Thisbes f.	Thisbe
rixor, rixari, rixatus sum	to quarrel
uterque, utraque, utrumque	both, each (of two)
rima, -ae f.	crack
osculum, -i n.	kiss
consilium, -i n.	plan
consilium capere	to adopt a plan
inscius, -a, -um	not knowing
vultus, -us m.	face, countenance
velamen, -inis n.	veil, shawl
ore sanguine asperso	with his face being spattered by blood
spelunca, -ae f.	cave
sentio, sentire, sensi, sensum	to feel, notice, perceive
exprimo, exprimere, expressi, expressum	to press out, express
valedico (3)	to say goodbye
aspergo, aspergere, aspersi, aspersum	to sprinkle, scatter, spatter
progredior, progredi, progressus sum	to go forward
nec	and... not
prior, -ius	first of two, previous
moritura	(a woman) about to die
occido, occidere, occidi, occisum	to kill
perdo, perdere, perdidi, perditum	to destroy
dux, ducis m.	leader, general
pugno (1)	to fight
instructus, -a, -um	drawn up, deployed
pilum, -i n.	javelin, spear
conscendo, conscendere, conscendi, conscensum	to board (a ship)
depello, depellere, depuli, depulsum	to drive away
peritus, -a, -um	skilled
tela, -ae f.	fabric, loom
curiosus, -a, -um	curious
nympha, -ae f.	nymph, nature spirit
miror, mirari, miratus sum	to admire, wonder at
nego (1)	to deny
certamen, certaminis n.	contest
anus, -us f.	old woman
simulo (1)	to pretend, take the form of
innixus, -a, -um	leaning on
superbus, -a, -um	proud, arrogant
venia, -ae f.	pardon, forgiveness
dicta, -orum	things, having been spoken/words
ambo, ambae, ambo	both
opus, operis n.	work, product
laqueus, -i m.	noose
misereor, -eri, -itus sum (+ gen)	to pity
aranea, -ae f.	spider
filum, -i n. thread	
deducens	drawing out, spinning
cedo, cedere, cessi, cessurum (+ dat)	to yield to, to give in to
ostendo, ostendere, ostendi, ostentum	to show
gero, gerere, gessi, gestum	to wear, carry on, perform, do
suspendo, suspendere, suspendi, suspensum	to hang, to suspend
pendeo, pendere, pependi	to suspend, to hang
deminuo, deminuere, deminui, deminutum	to shrink, diminish